Add an introduction to HTML templating (#13430)
sphinx-doc/sphinx: doc/development/html_themes/templating.rst

Templating
==========

What Is Templating?
-------------------

> Templating is a method of generating HTML pages by using template files that provide,
> not only the static parts of the desired HTML output, but also provide some special
> syntax describing how content will be inserted.  Since template files function
> similar to Cascading Style Sheets, generating HTML pages this way provides a flexible
> way for Sphinx extensions (such as themes) to "inherit from" and modify basic
> templates, or replace them altogether, to achieve customized HTML page layout.
> Similarly, an individual documentation project can customize the theme it is using
> through the same mechanism, using locally-provided custom HTML templates.  Templates
> can be maintained by anyone with an understanding of HTML; no knowledge of Python is
> required.

Reviewer: Thanks for the PR, a great suggestion. See below for a proposed rewording.

Please could you elaborate on the line "template files function similar to Cascading Style Sheets"? I'm not sure I follow.

I've removed the mention of Sphinx extensions, as whilst themes can be extensions, they are logically distinct.

```suggestion
Templating is a method of generating HTML pages by combining data and static templates.
The template files contain the static parts of the desired HTML output
and include special syntax describing how variable content will be inserted.
For example, this can be used to insert the current date in the footer of each page,
or to surround the main content of the document with a scaffold of HTML for layout
and formatting purposes.
Using templates to generate HTML means that the content can be changed without altering
Sphinx's source code, meaning that the Sphinx core can provide basic HTML generation,
independent of the final output.
Since template files function similar to Cascading Style Sheets,
generating HTML pages this way provides a flexible way for Sphinx themes
to "inherit from" and modify basic templates, or replace them altogether,
to achieve customised HTML page layout.
Similarly, any project can customise the theme it is using by the same mechanism,
using locally-provided HTML templates, overriding those from the theme and Sphinx.
Templates can be maintained by anyone with an understanding of HTML;
no knowledge of Python is required.
```

What Is Templating?
-------------------

Templating is a method of generating HTML pages by combining data and static
templates. The template files contain the static parts of the desired HTML output and
include special syntax describing how variable content will be inserted. For example,
this can be used to insert the current date in the footer of each page, or to
surround the main content of the document with a scaffold of HTML for layout and
formatting purposes.

Using templates to generate HTML means that the content can be changed without
altering Sphinx's source code, meaning that the Sphinx core can provide basic HTML
generation, independent of the final output.

> Since template files function similar to Cascading Style Sheets, generating HTML

Reviewer: @vwheeler63 can you elaborate on this line please? I'm not sure I follow on the similarity between CSS and templates.

Author: > @vwheeler63 can you elaborate on this line please? I'm not sure I follow on the similarity between CSS and templates.

What I meant to convey there is about the relationship between templates, where "more local" templates can inherit from higher templates and override as much of them as desired, from a tiny bit (e.g. one **block**), up through the whole thing.  And in that respect, I find that similar (at least in my mind) to CSS.  If that's not actually a good comparison, then perhaps it would be better simply to state explicitly that the more local template can override as little or as much of the higher-level template as desired?  (Note:  while I am a 32-veteran developer, I'm new to web development (and learning), so my view of CSS is probably limited compared to yours.)  Perhaps it shares a deeper similarity to inheritance in O-O languages.

Author: > @vwheeler63 can you elaborate on this line please? I'm not sure I follow on the similarity between CSS and templates.

I will try an alternate description simply using inheritance.

Author: @AA-Turner It's also possible that detail about the inheritance is not needed in an orientation paragraph.  As a student, however, I found it helpful to quickly get my mind around the ***nature of template files*** and the amazingly powerful tool that they are, and why they were/are a ***genius*** design choice for Sphinx to use to push HTML through to get a final result!  😄
